Israel launched its latest military
offensive a week ago on July the 8th
since then more than 170 Palestinians
have been killed most of them civilians
at least 1,00 have been wounded over the
same period almost 800 Palestinian
Rockets have hit Israel another 200 have
been intercepted some Israelis have been
injured but so far no one has been
killed just how this latest escalation
came about is inevitably the subject of
debate but a climate of heightened
tension was created by the kidnapping
and killing of three young Israelis in
the West Bank and a young Palestinian in
Jerusalem the political environment was
already poisonous 8 months of us
sponsored diplomacy had collapsed and
Israel had condemned an effort by the
two main Palestinian factions fat and
Hamas to patch up their own bitter Feud
as for Gaza well it's been under a
severe military and economic blockade
ever since as took control in
2007 Israel allows in humanitarian
supplies including food and fuel and
says the blockade is vital for its own
security Aid agencies say it keeps most
of the Gaza strips 1.8 million
Palestinians living in poverty and
remember more than half of these people
are already refugees the role of Egypt
is vital in all this while the Muslim
Brotherhood was in power in Cairo it
opened its own Raa Border Crossing into
Gaza and allowed Smugglers to use
hundreds of tunnels below it but the new
government of President Abdul fatah Ali
is much less sympathetic to Hamas The
Crossing is largely closed most of the
tunnels have been destroyed and if the
events of the past week feel very
familiar that's because we've been here
before this is the third substantial
Israeli assault on the GZA strip in
recent years all launched with the same
stated purpose to stop the Rockets in
December 2008 it launched operation cast
Le which included a major ground
offensive four years later came
operation pillar of defense this time
Israeli forces did not invade the latest
operation is called protective Edge the
Army stands poised to enter the Gaza
Strip but the order to go in on mass has
not yet been given